# CS 598 DLH Project - Patient Phenotyping

albertc4, laurenh4

Group ID: 20

Paper ID: 116

Code re-used from the original paper author: https://github.com/sebastianGehrmann/phenotyping

## Data

Due to patient confidentiality requirements, we are not including the annotated dataset in this repository. The `data/annotations.csv` file is available in the original paper's code implementation [here](https://github.com/sebastianGehrmann/phenotyping). This file contains patient and hospital admission IDs, and the annotations done by the original paper authors. This file is missing the discharge summary text column, which can be obtained from MIMIC-III via physionet and should be saved as `data/NOTEEVENTS.csv`. To append the necessary column and get the full dataset, run the following command with python 3:

```
python add_discharge.py
```

## Running The Code

### Preprocessing

The word2vec results were provided by the original paper authors, and are included in the original paper's implementation [repository](https://github.com/sebastianGehrmann/phenotyping). This file should be saved to the root directory as `w2v.txt`. The preprocessed data files `data.h5` and `data-nobatch.h5` can be generated by running the following command with python 3:

```
python preprocess.py data/annotations.csv w2v.txt --batchsize=5
```

This will create `data.h5` and `data-nobatch.h5` in the root folder.

### Baseline Methods

Create a directory named `converted` in the root directory, if you have not run the baseline methods script previously. To run the baseline methods:

```
python basic_models.py --data data-nobatch.h5 --ngram 5
```

ngram value should be set to 1 to run bag of words logistic regression

### Convolutional Neural Net (CNN)

TODO: Update CNN instructions

We recommend that you have a GPU with a cuda installation. Otherwise, training might take
a very long time! This code is based off of the following repository:
https://github.com/harvardnlp/sent-conv-torch
You can find more information there!

#### Install Torch

From http://torch.ch/docs/getting-started.html :

```
git clone https://github.com/torch/distro.git
cd distro; bash install-deps;
./install.sh
```

#### Install Torch packages

    luarocks install hdf5

#### Running the code

Please run the code with the following command:

```
th main.lua [OPTIONS]
```

You can find all options documented in the file itself.
Important ones are "-gpuid" to set your GPU as well as "-label_index" to define
which phenotype you want to detect. Here is the list that explains the indices:

1: cohort (is the patient frequent flier)
2: Obesity
3: Non Adherence
4: Developmental Delay Retardation
5: Advanced Heart Disease
6: Advanced Lung Disease
7: Schizophrenia and other Psychiatric Disorders
8: Alcohol Abuse
9: Other Substance Abuse
10: Chronic Pain Fibromyalgia
11: Chronic Neurological Dystrophies
12: Advanced Cancer
13: Depression
14: Dementia
